Create rule S6482: Explicit argument indexing in "std::format" should be used only for non-trivial ordering (CPP-3030) (#1432)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6482/cfamily/rule.adoc

> Calls to std::format and std::vformat can receive either format strings whose replacement fields are fully indexed or fully non-indexed.

Reviewer: The feature is refered as automatic indexing in standard wording.

Reviewer: So maybe refer to automatic and explicit indexing insteewad.

> Indexed replacement fields are useful when parameters are not used in order or are used multiple times. Non-indexed replacement fields have the advantage of tersity and simplicity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indexed replacement fields are useful when parameters are not used in order or are used multiple times. Non-indexed replacement fields have the advantage of being terse and simple.
```

> Indexed replacement fields are useful when parameters are not used in order or are used multiple times. Non-indexed replacement fields have the advantage of tersity and simplicity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Explicitly indexing replacement fields is useful when arguments are not used in order or are used multiple times. Implicit indexing has the advantage of tersity and simplicity.
```

> Using indexed replacement fields in a context where non-indexed ones would have the same behaviour is more verbose, error prone, and might give the impression to the reader that parameters will not be read in order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using explicit indexing in a context where implicit indexing would have the same behavior is more verbose, error-prone, and might confuse the reader who might expect the arguments not to be used in order.
```

== Noncompliant Code Example

[source,cpp]
----
std::string printRectangle(Rectangle const& r) {

>     return std::format("[{0},{1}]:({2},{3})", r.x, r.y, r.width, r.height); // noncompliant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    return std::format("[{0},{1}]:({2},{3})", r.x, r.y, r.width, r.height); // Noncompliant
```

}
----

== Compliant Solution

[source,cpp]
----
std::string printRectangle(Rectangle const& r) {

>     return std::format("[{},{}]:({},{})", r.x, r.y, r.width, r.height);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    return std::format("[{},{}]:({},{})", r.x, r.y, r.width, r.height); // Compliant
```

> Calls to std::format and std::vformat can receive either format strings whose replacement fields are fully indexed or fully non-indexed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Calls to ``std::format`` and ``std::vformat`` can receive either format strings whose replacement fields are fully indexed or fully non-indexed.
```

Explicitly indexing replacement fields is useful when arguments are not used in order or are used multiple times. Implicit indexing has the advantage of being terse and simple.

> 
> Using explicit indexing in a context where implicit indexing would have the same behavior is more verbose, error-prone, and might confuse the reader who might expect the arguments not to be used in order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Using explicit indexing in a context where implicit indexing would have the same behavior is more verbose and error-prone. It might confuse the reader, who might expect the arguments not to be used in order.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Should we add the usual `This rule detects...`

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

This rule raises an issue on explicit indexing that should be replaced by implicit indexing.

```

Calls to ``std::format`` and ``std::vformat`` can receive either format strings whose replacement fields are fully indexed or fully non-indexed.

Explicitly indexing replacement fields is useful when arguments are not used in order or are used multiple times. Implicit indexing has the advantage of being terse and simple.

Using explicit indexing in a context where implicit indexing would have the same behavior is more verbose and error-prone. It might confuse the reader, who might expect the arguments not to be used in order.

> This rule raises an issue on explicit indexing that should be replaced by implicit indexing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This rule raises an issue on explicit indexing that should be replaced by implicit indexing.

```

Calls to ``std::format`` and ``std::vformat`` can receive either format strings whose replacement fields are fully indexed or fully non-indexed.

Explicitly indexing replacement fields is useful when arguments are not used in order or are used multiple times. Implicit indexing has the advantage of being terse and simple.

Using explicit indexing in a context where implicit indexing would have the same behavior is more verbose and error-prone. It might confuse the reader, who might expect the arguments not to be used in order.

This rule raises an issue on explicit indexing that should be replaced by implicit indexing.

== Noncompliant Code Example

[source,cpp]
----
std::string printRectangle(Rectangle const& r) {
    return std::format("[{0},{1}]:({2},{3})", r.x, r.y, r.width, r.height); // Noncompliant
}
----

== Compliant Solution

[source,cpp]
----
std::string printRectangle(Rectangle const& r) {
    return std::format("[{},{}]:({},{})", r.x, r.y, r.width, r.height); // Compliant
}
----

== Exceptions

Format strings with nested replacement fields are not considered by this rule as their order is less intuitive.

[source,cpp]
----
std::string printNDigits() {

>     return std::format("{1:*<{2}} {3:*>{4}}", 10, 2, 11, 3); // Compliant

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    return std::format("{0:*<{1}} {2:*>{3}}", 10, 2, 11, 3); // Compliant
```
